LuaRocks Tumbler
================

A little script inspired by envy of `bundler` and `npm`, particularly as
used by Heroku.

Homepage: <https://github.com/rpavlik/luarocks-tumbler>

Original author: [Ryan
Pavlik][rp], <rpavlik@iastate.edu> <abiryan@ryand.net>

[rp]:http://academic.cleardefinition.com/ "Ryan Pavlik"

About
-----
LuaRocks-Tumbler (which I'll just call Tumbler from here on) is my
answer to the question of, how can I do an automated deployment of some
Lua application that is self-contained with its dependencies? I think
that Bundler lets you do this with Ruby, and when I've pushed apps to
Heroku written in Node.js, it does something similar using npm. I'm not
terribly familiar with either of those tools, so forgive any
mis-representation or misunderstanding.

Essentially, you create a rockspec for your application to drive the
build. This is mostly important because of the list of scripts (which
will get a wrapper script from LuaRocks to use the right deps) and
because you need to specify your dependencies.

Then, running the `luarocks-tumbler` script in your app directory will,
by default, download, extract, build, and install LuaRocks to a
temporary directory with a rocks tree rooted at `$(pwd)/tree` (override
by setting environment variable `TREEDIR`).

Tumbler then calls `luarocks make` in all the directories you specify to
build and install them to `TREEDIR`. When called without any arguments,
Tumbler assumes you mean the current directory.

When all is said and done, you'll have your app, as well as all of its
dependencies (except for Lua) installed to `TREEDIR` in a self-contained way.

Requirements
------------

- Bash shell

- Lua 5.1 already installed (luarocks not needed, though)

	- Yes, this means that we don't bootstrap and bundle a Lua executable
	unlike the Kepler installer. Makes it simpler.

- `wget` or `curl` and an internet connection

- A unixy platform compatible with the `.tar.gz` version of the LuaRocks
	download, rather than the `Win32.zip` version.

Notes
-----
This is particularly useful in conjuction with [git-deploy][]. You have two options for using it:

- Add Tumbler as a submodule.

- Download and execute the latest version on the fly directly from
github with something like this:

```sh
/usr/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/rpavlik/luarocks-tumbler/master/luarocks-tumbler)" luarocks-tumbler {ANY_OTHER_ARGS_HERE}
```

Thus, you can use it in your deploy scripts. That's what I'm doing with it, in any
case.

[git-deploy]:https://github.com/mislav/git-deploy


License
-------
`luarocks-tumbler` itself is licensed under the BSL 1.0. Other used
components (lua, luarocks, etc) have their own licenses.

`luarocks-tumbler` is subject to the following license:

> Copyright Iowa State University 2012.
>
> Distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0.
>
> (See accompanying file `LICENSE_1_0.txt` or copy at
> <http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt>)
